
Brahma, Vishnu and Siva make the Triad in Hinduism. Their power is vested in their Sakthis.
Without their Sakthis, the Gods are powerless.  Brahma and Sarasvati, Vishnu and Sri, & Siva and Sakthi
are the power couples.  The Sakthi is always red. The Gods are portrayed always with upturned triangles, while their Sakthis
are inverted triangles, based on the escutcheon of the respective genders.

25SattvaRajasTamas (Dec 1, 2025)	 

Tiruvasakam by Manikkavasagar
Tiruvasakam1.1	Tiruvasakam1.2	Tiruvasakam1.3	Tiruvasakam1.4	Tiruvasakam1.5	Tiruvasakam1.6
Tiruvasakam1.7	Tiruvasakam1.8	Tiruvasakam1.9	Tiruvasakam1.10	Tiruvavasakam1.11	Tiruvasakam1.12
[... truncated for brevity in this thought, but will include full text in tool call ...]
BG01    BG Chapter 01 Arjuna's Distress  (Contains Sanskrit Verses)
BG02    BG Chapter 02 Samkhya Yoga- The Yoga of Knowledge.
BG03    BG Chapter 03 Karma Yoga.
BG04    BG Chapter 04 The Yoga of Knowledge
BG05    BG Chapter 05 Yoga of Renunciation of Action
BG06    BG Chapter 06 The Yoga of self-control
BG07    BG Chapter 07 Knowledge and Realization
BG08    BG Chapter 08 Brahman the Imperishable
BG09    BG Chapter 09 Yoga of Sovereign Knowledge and Sovereign Secret
BG10    BG Chapter 10 Manifestation
BG11    BG Chapter 11The Grand Vision                                        
BG12    BG Chapter 12 Bhakti
BG13    BG Chapter 13The Knower, the Field, and the Nature
BG14    BG Chapter 14The Three-Guna Psychology
BG15    BG Chapter 15 The Supreme Person
BG16    BG Chapter 16 The Divine and the Demon
BG17    BG Chapter 17 Gunas and Faith
BG18    BG Chapter 18 Renunciation and Liberation

SayingsOfRamakrishnaParamahamsa.pdf
All sayings 0001 to 1120

  'Sayings of Sri Ramakrishna' 
Sampler

Real Nature of Man

1. You see many stars in the sky at night, but not when the sun rises. Can you therefore say that there are no stars in the heavens during the day? O man, because you cannot find God in the days of your ignorance, say not that there is no God.

16. The digit 1 may be raised to a figure of any value by adding zeros after it; but if that 1 is omitted, zeros by themselves have no value. Similarly so long as the Jiva (individual soul) does not cling to God, who is the One, he has no value, for all things here get their value from their connection with God. So long as the Jiva clings to God, who is the value-giving figure behind the world, and does all his work for Him, he gains more and more thereby; on the contrary, if he overlooks God and adds to his work many grand achievements, all done for his own glorification, he will gain nothing therefrom. 

17. As a lamp does not burn without oil, so a man cannot  live without God. 

18. God is to man what a magnet is to iron. Why does He not then attract man? As iron thickly imbedded in mud is not moved by the attraction of the magnet, so the soul thickly imbedded in Maya does not feel the attraction of the Lord. But when the mud is washed away with water, the iron is free to move. Even so, when by the constant tears of prayer and repentance, the soul washes away the mud of Maya that compels it to stick to the earth, it is soon attracted by the Lord to Himself. 

19. The union of the Jivatman with the Paramatman is like the union of the hour and the minute hands of a watch once in every hour. They are inter-related and interdependent, and though usually separate, they may become united as often as favorable opportunities occur. 

20. The soul enchained is man, but when free from the chain (Maya), it is the Lord. 

21. What is the relation between the Jivatman and the Paramatman? As a current of water seems to be divided into two when a plank of wood is placed against it edgewise, so the Indivisible appears divided into two, the Jivatman and the Paramatrnan, due to the limitation of Maya. 

22. Water and a bubble on it are one and the same. The bubble has its birth in the water, floats on it, and is ultimately resolved into it. So also the Jivatman and the Paramatman are one and the same, the difference between them being only one of degree. For, one is finite and limited while the other is infinite; one is dependent while the other is independent. 

23. The idea of an individual ego is just like enclosing a portion of the water of the Ganges and calling the enclosed portion one's own Ganges. 

24. As a piece of lead thrown into a basin of mercury soon becomes an amalgam with it, so an individual soul loses its limited existence when it falls into the ocean of Brahman. 

25. God is the infinite Being, while Jiva is only a finite being. How then can the finite grasp the Infinite? It is like a doll made of salt trying to fathom the depth of the ocean. In doing so the salt doll is dissolved into the sea and lost. Similarly the Jiva, in trying to measure God and know Him, loses its separateness and becomes one with Him. 

26. The Lord Himself is playing in the form of man. He is the great juggler and this phantasmagoria of Jiva and Jagat is His great jugglery. The Juggler alone is true, the jugglery is false.
